#   FINANCIAL STATEMENT FRAUD DETECTION IN PUBLIC LISTED COMPANIES 

### Background of Study
Financial statement fraud is a significant issue worldwide, and detecting its early stage is essential. This study aimed to investigate ways to detect financial statement fraud, using a sample of 220 annual reports of companies from the Bursa Malaysia website between 2012 and 2022. The fraud triangle theory was used in the research framework, including financial stability, leverage, financial target, number of audit committees, and auditor changes. Around 45% of the companies in the sample manipulated their financial statements using the Beinish model. The companies that committed fraud faced more pressure on their financial stability, leverage, financial target and liquidity, had more audit committees, and changed auditors more frequently than companies that did not commit fraud. Logistic regression analysis indicated that financial stability was the only proxy affecting the presence of financial statement fraud. Several independent variables, including auditor changes, financial stability, leverage, and financial target, were identified using feature selection. The study used logistic regression and a random forest model to determine the best method of detecting financial statement fraud in Malaysian publicly listed companies. The results showed that the random forest model, which utilized the backward elimination technique, was the most effective. This study's findings can help auditors identify early warning signals of fraud in financial statements. Bursa Malaysia can use the information to encourage Malaysian publicly listed companies to enhance anti-fraud policies.
Keywords: financial statement fraud, Beneish model, fraud triangle, logistic regression analysis, random forest.
